Right now I've gotta go.
Hey, hold up, Ichigo!
Do you even have a plan?
How you gonna get
back there, huh?
Mm.
(puff smoke)
Right on time!
Let's go.
Well, well look who it is.
(harrumphing chuckle)
You ready to give
it one more go.
(melodious guitar music)
(gasps)
(surprised gasps)
[Ichigo] You're the one.
Nice job.
Now come on up.
As promised, I'll personally
reforge it for you.
("Scar" by Tatsuya Kitani)
(singing in Japanese)
-("Scar" by Tatsuya Kitani)
-(singing in Japanese)
(swinging weapon grunts)
Hone your swing!
Or you'll never cut
those Quincies down!
[All] Yes, sir!
(swinging weapon grunts)
Hm?
Captain Hitsugaya!
What brings you here today?
I'd like for you to train me.
What?
As you know, my
Bankai was stolen.
If I'm to fight
using only Zanjutsu,
I must return to basics
and relearn everything.
(shocked gasps)
(swinging weapon grunts)
After the battle against Aizen,
I refined my Bankai
to its highest point
until it could be
called a true Bankai.
But then, my Bankai was stolen.
I must let go of
what's been lost.
There's no time to waste
dreaming of getting it back.
Right now, I need to look ahead.
I don't understand.
Why'd you bring me out here?
Shuhei, I want you
to master Bankai.
Huh?
I was lucky my Bankai
wasn't stolen this time
but it could very
well happen the next.
The more Soul Reapers who
use Bankai, the better.
(shocked gasps)
Now Mashiro, Hollowfy!
Okay!
Transform!
(gasps)
Wait, Kuna!
Better watch out.
Mashiro's strong when
she's Hollowfied.
I think mastering your Bankai's
the only way you won't die here.
Captain Muguruma, you
can't expect me to...
(punching grunt)
(grunts)
You idiot.
I told you to be careful.
That's right!
After all, a lieutenant
shouldn't disobey
a super lieutenant!
See this?
[Kensei] Get up.
You're either going to
master Bankai or die trying.
I'm not soft like Tosen was.
Just hold on, Captain Muguruma.
I've always looked up
to and respected you.
But still, even if
that's the case,
you have no right to
badmouth Captain Tosen!
(door opens)
Hey.
Mr. Akon!
Should you be
walking around yet?
Of course not.
I'm still in a lot of pain.
But I'm not the type to be
lying around in bed all day.
Where's the Captain?
Oh, right, ever since
the Quincy attack,
he's just been staying
holed up inside his office
along with the Lieutenant.
And he hasn't come out?
Not once?
No.
Hm.
(door opens)
Is something wrong?
The Captain's been cooped
up for over 24 hours,
but the Surveillance
Bugs are inactive.
That has never happened before.
What?
So either a crisis has occurred
in the Captain's office
or he's conducting experiments
that he doesn't want
anyone else to see
through the Surveillance Bugs.
At any rate, I'm
taking a look.
Mr. Akon, what's that?
A hidden camera I planted
on the Captain's office.
That's illegal!
Just drop it.
Picture's up.
(garbled static)
(stunned gasps)
What the hell is that thing?
What in the world is the
Captain creating in there?
(static)
Big Brother!
Hey!
Where are you, Big Brother?
Big Brother!
Time to get up.
Please, come and
play ball with me!
No!
Now get lost!
(shocked gasps)
(teary)
Hold on!
Please don't start
crying, Mareyo!
Listen, I, uh...
(ingratiating chuckle)
Wanna play kemari?
Okay!
[Marechiyo] Here it goes!
Wow!
That's amazing, Big Brother!
I guess that the Captain
decided not to take me with her.
(determined inhale)
Who's there?
It's been a long time,
Great Elder.
So, Sajin...
You've got some nerve
coming back here.
Well get on with it.
What do you want?
Great Elder, I have
come in order to learn
our clan's secret technique.
(raucous laughter)
Don't be ridiculous.
For years you shamelessly
donned a hat and armor
and pretended to be human
because you were embarrassed
by our clan's appearance.
How dare you come here
and make demands of me.
Please, just look at me!
I no longer hide my appearance.
The world has changed much
over the past few decades.
I sense it's reached a point
where our clan can
live out in the open.
I see a future where
we can be accepted.
That very world is
currently under threat!
Just shut your mouth!
You've got it all wrong.
The world is under
no true threat.
It will never perish.
Only the bearer
of it will change.
Even then, our clan
will remain the same.
Regardless of who
claims the world,
we'll continue to
live in the shadows.
And I'm telling you
we can change that!
We must change it for
the sake of our children
and our grandchildren.
Nothing will change.
Nor is there a need for it to.
Ultimately, it doesn't matter
who the world may belong to.
It's none of our concern.
Please, Great Elder!
(loud rumble)
(shocked gasps)
Don't you understand, Sajin?
I'm telling you not to
disrupt the peace we have.
Don't make me repeat myself.
And if you can't do that
then I shall have no other
choice but to crush you.
All right!
Bring it on!
(out of control yell)
(splash)
(coughs)
(shocked gasps)
See that?
This is why the Hoohden
was built on a cliff!
A Bankai cannot be reforged
without all of this water.
(stunned)
Now brace yourself, Ichigo.
Because this is where
you and your Zanpakuto,
your old buddy Zangetsu
must bid each other adieu!
(shocked gasps)
(water crashing)
All right, everybody!
Come on!
Let's begin!
It's time
to start
the show!
Yeah!
[All] Yes, sir!
(punched grunt)
(finger cracks)
The Nimaiya Bodyguards are here!
(stunned grunt)
Hey, what are you doing,
just standing there
staring at me?
When I said "everybody," that
includes you, too, you know.
Asauchi.
(dodging grunt)
Can somebody tell
me what's going on?
All right, it's party time!
(upbeat electronic music)
(rumbles)
Ready!
Okay!
(rumbles)
(digging efforts)
I hate this so much.
What a hassle!
I can't believe I'm being
dragged into this mess again!
Oh, what a horrible
life I have--
Don't be like that, Ms. Tokie!
C'mon, we have a
job to do, remember?
Here goes!
There!
Ha!
Yes!
I got you!
(inhales)
(upbeat electronic music)
Now then, let's get to
work and get this done.
(metal clanging)
What're you thinking while
you're watching, Go-Ichi?
(metal clanging)
Well, uh, it's
much brighter now?
So I guess maybe you should
have left your sunglasses on.
You fool!
If I kept my sunglasses on
then I wouldn't be able to
see the color of the flames!
(metal clangs)
Have you figured it
out yet, Go-Ichi?
Huh?
(metal clangs)
I'm talking about the reason
why this Asauchi turned white
the moment that it touched you!
No.
I bet you thought,
"It reminds me of the
Hollow within me."
(shocked gasps)
(hiss)
That's right.
This guy is the
Hollow within you.
You see, that Asauchi
essentially became
a kind of catalyst
and drew this Zanpakuto out.
Mm.
What I'm trying to tell you
is this Hollow is your
true Zanpakuto, Go-Ichi!
(stunned gasps)
(metal clangs)
Aizen created the
Hollow known as "White"
by layering countless Soul
Reaper souls, one atop another.
Oddly enough,
that's the same method I use
to create my Asauchi.
That very same Hollow
entered your body
and melded with your
natural Soul Reaper powers,
thereby becoming your Zanpakuto.
Wait, hold on a second.
You mean Old Man Zangetsu is--
I told you, didn't I?
That you'll be saying
goodbye to "Zangetsu?"
Yes, deep inside,
you already know.
(metal clangs)
On some level, you
recognize the truth
about the man inside your soul
who's been pretending
to be your Zanpakuto!
-(shocked gasps)
-(metal clangs)
[Ichigo] Old Man Zangetsu...
[Oetsu] Go-Ichi, you
know that man, right?
[Ichigo] Of course, I do!
-It's Zangetsu--
-No.
Look closer.
You've seen that man up
close with your own eyes.
Quite recently, in fact.
Surely you recognize him
as the enemy who destroyed
the Soul Society!
(shocked gasps)
That man is not
the manifestation
of your Soul Reaper powers.
No. He is your Quincy powers
taking the form of Yhwach
from a thousand years ago!
(wind howls)
I've been trying to
avoid thinking about it.
That day, back when I
first confronted him,
I felt as though I'd
been drawn there.
All this time, I've been trying
not to let myself ask why.
And why I was able
to go straight to him
without knowing anything.
Or why I thought he was
the most important enemy.
And finally why the
first time I saw him
he reminded me of
someone I know.
Zangetsu!
(raining)
What the hell is going
on here, Zangetsu?
It's as you just heard.
I'm Sorry, Ichigo,
I am not Zangetsu.
(shocked gasps)
(rumbles)
(stunned gasps)
Ugh.
So, then you truly are Yhwach?
Are you telling me that,
that you're really not Zangetsu?
What I am is the source
of the Quincy power
that lies within you.
I am Yhwach, and yet I am not.
I don't get it!
Are you my enemy or my ally?
Was everything that you
said to me just a lie?
Answer me!
I am not an enemy
nor am I an ally.
But my words held no lies.
Except for the name
that I told you.
Ichigo, I know you've seen it.
Think Back.
Whenever I taught you how
to use your Zanpakuto,
I always had help
from the Hollow.
Whenever a time came
when you couldn't handle
your Zanpakuto's power.
Whenever you were truly in
danger of losing your life.
The one that always ended
up saving you was not me.
It was the Hollow.
I never wanted you to become
a Soul Reaper, Ichigo.
That's why I suppressed
your true power,
which had not fully matured.
I took control of it
and became the center
of your power instead.
But why?
Why, you ask?
The answer is simple.
I wished to keep you
from danger and conflict.
What else would I be after?
If you became a Soul Reaper,
you'd be dragged into battle
whether you wanted to be or not.
You'd get hurt.
You'd suffer.
And eventually, even
if I didn't want to,
I'd have to kill you
with my own hands.
(shocked gasps)
(energy buzzes)
(taken aback gasps)
I couldn't let you
become a Soul Reaper.
Because if you did so,
I'd have to kill you.
I knew that's what would happen.
However, you chose the path
of a Soul Reaper, anyway.
You seized your chance,
honed your strength,
suffered through
pain and sorrow,
and yet kept travelling
down that path
of your own free will.
As I watched you,
I could almost feel
my heart beginning to waver.
(bubbling)
Eventually, I decided
that I'd no longer
try to keep you away
from the Soul Reapers.
My heart turned toward
supporting your decision.
And now, as I stand
here before you...
I feel a great sense of joy
at the thought of
stepping away from you.
Ichigo, you've become strong.
I've been able to stand
right there beside you,
watching you grow.
Now I'm happy to leave,
knowing that you can
stand on your own.
(shocked gasps)
I am satisfied.
No.
Wait, Zangetsu!
I still need you!
("Number One - Bankai"
by Shiro Sagisu)
Ichigo, what you've
been using so far
is merely a fragment
of your total power.
It's only the part
I couldn't suppress.
But now no one can stop you
from fighting with
your own, full power.
Go on, take it.
That is your true Zanpakuto.
That is Zangetsu.
(explosive burst)
[Ichigo] That's right.
There were no lies...
Not in his words or yours.
You used a Quincy's shadow
in order to help me.
You used a Quincy's blood
in order to stop mine.
And you lent me the
power of a Quincy
to help me win when I was weak.
Zangetsu...
I don't care who you really are.
You might try to
deny this, but...
You and him are
both Zangetsu to me.
Let's just agree
to that, all right?
Zangetsu?
(flames roaring)
What the?
Hey, what are you doing?
-Your hands'll--
-It's all good.
Isn't that right, Go-Ichi?
Funny, I was thinking
the same thing.
I had a nagging suspicion
that until you poured
your soul into it,
it'd remain incomplete.
(harrumphing chuckle)
Go on.
show us what you got, Go-Ichi!
(triumphant yell)
That... is your Zanpakuto!
(explosive burst)
(steam hissing)
The sea!
It evaporated!
What do you say, Go-Ichi?
You think you'll
be okay with them?
Those two Zangetsu
you have now?
Two Zanpakuto?
-No way!
-His soul's in both?
That's incredible!
Yeah.
After all, they were both real.
Zangetsu...
I won't ask you to lend
me your strength anymore.
I won't tell you to stay
out of my way, either.
And I won't ask you guys
to fight alongside me.
From here on out,
I'll fight on my own.
Thank you, Zangetsu.
You are me.
(footsteps)
You have returned, Haschwalth.
And the target?
Right here.
(footsteps)
I welcome you, Uryu Ishida.
Now, then...
Let us fight together,
my son.
("Number One - Bankai"
by Shiro Sagisu)